The S&P 500 retreated on Monday as rising yields overshadowed strong Goldman Sachs earnings, hot retail sales data and hopes that the conflict in the Middle East will not escalate further.The broad index slipped 1.1%, swinging into negative territory after trading up by as much as 0.9% earlier in the session. The Nasdaq Composite tumbled 1.6% as Salesforce and other technology stocks were particularly hard hit. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 185 points, or 0.5%, relinquishing an advance of more than 1% seen at session highs.Higher rates appeared to pour cold water on the market bounce seen Monday morning. The yield on the closely followed 10-year Treasury rose above the key 4.6% level in the session and touched its highest point since mid-November.Yields popped after data released Monday morning showed retail sales increased 0.7% in March, providing the latest indication that consumption remains strong despite inflationary pressures. That pace was higher than the 0.3% consensus forecast of economists polled by Dow Jones.Also weighing on investor sentiment was Iran's launch of drones and missiles at Israel on Saturday night, marking the first direct attack on Israel from Iranian territory. While the majority of threats were intercepted, concerns of retaliation remain. Oil prices fell on Monday, giving up some gains after rising in the weeks leading up to the attack. But the commodity came off lows in afternoon trading, another factor providing downward pressure on the market."Historically, geopolitical shocks cause short-term volatility, not long-term market declines," said Emily Bowersock Hill, CEO of Bowersock Capital Partners. "In this current environment, however, the risk of an extended period of volatility is higher, given the inflationary oil price shocks that may emanate from the heightened tensions in the Middle East."The Dow was led down by Salesforce, which dropped more than 6% on reports that the software company was in talks to acquire data management firm Informatica. On the other hand, fellow Dow member Goldman Sachs popped about 3% after beating Wall Street expectations on both lines in the first quarter.Monday's action adds to the prior tough week on Wall Street, as lingering inflation concerns and a poor start to the new corporate earnings season weighed on traders. Both the Dow and S&P 500 saw their worst weekly performances since last year. 