Stocks rose Thursday as tech shares climbed higher, managing to rebound from an earlier pullback over concerns of persistent inflation.The S&P 500 gained 0.9%. The Nasdaq Composite added 1.7%, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 68 points, or 0.2%.Technology stocks lifted the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite into positive territory midday Thursday as investors bought into the dip from earlier in the week. Nvidia jumped nearly 4%. Other "Magnificent Seven" members rallied, with Amazon and Alphabet gaining more than 2%. Shares of the e-commerce giant also hit an all-time high. Apple popped 3%, notching its best day in 2024.The Dow is on pace to end the week lower by almost 1%. Meanwhile, the S&P 500 has recouped its earlier losses following a hot CPI report, and is now slightly higher week to date. The tech-heavy Nasdaq is up 1.2% for the week.The producer price index reading for March came in below estimates, providing some relief after Wednesday's sell-off on a hot consumer prices report."The inflation data are noisy, and the market reflects that reality. There are clear signs of disinflation in lots of places, but the last mile of the inflation fight is going to be the most difficult," said Jamie Cox, managing partner at Harris Financial Group, referring to the Federal Reserve's ultimate goal of reaching 2% inflation.Meanwhile, New York Fed President John Williams said during an event Thursday that there is no need for a policy change in the near term.This comes on the back of a hotter-than-expected March consumer price index reading released Wednesday, which sparked a market sell-off. Minutes from the Fed's meeting last month also showed that some officials remain concerned about inflation's path toward the central bank's 2% goal. Treasury yields popped following the news. They rose again on Thursday, with the 10-year Treasury note yield holding above 4.5%.The early stages of earnings season continue Thursday, with CarMax falling more than 11% after disappointing on both top and bottom lines. The unofficial start to the period commences with big bank earnings from JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and Citigroup on Friday. 